doc/manual/en/config/examples/haegar80.rst, before:


CometVisu von haegar80 (Metal)
==============================

This is where the productively used Visu from haegar80 is presented.

| **Design**: Metal
| **Plugins**: colorchooser, diagram
| **Config**: :download:`visu_config_metal_haegar80.xml <_static/visu_config_metal_haegar80.xml>`
|

Screenshots
-----------

+-------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
| .. figure:: _static/Example_Metal_haegar80_01.jpg     | .. figure:: _static/Example_Metal_haegar80_02.jpg     |
|    :alt: Screenshot Metal                             |    :alt: Screenshot Metal                             |
|    :width: 200px                                      |    :width: 200px                                      |
|                                                       |                                                       |
|    Screenshot Metal                                   |    Screenshot Metal                                   |
+-------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
| .. figure:: _static/Example_Metal_haegar80_03.jpg     | .. figure:: _static/Example_Metal_haegar80_04.jpg     |
|    :alt: Screenshot Metal                             |    :alt: Screenshot Metal                             |
|    :width: 200px                                      |    :width: 200px                                      |
|                                                       |                                                       |
|    Screenshot Metal                                   |    Screenshot Metal                                   |
+-------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
| .. figure:: _static/Example_Metal_haegar80_05.jpg     | .. figure:: _static/Example_Metal_haegar80_06.jpg     |
|    :alt: Screenshot Metal                             |    :alt: Screenshot Metal                             |
|    :width: 200px                                      |    :width: 200px                                      |
|                                                       |                                                       |
|    Screenshot Metal                                   |    Screenshot Metal                                   |
+-------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
| .. figure:: _static/Example_Metal_haegar80_07.jpg     | .. figure:: _static/Example_Metal_haegar80_08.jpg     |
|    :alt: Screenshot Metal                             |    :alt: Screenshot Metal                             |
|    :width: 200px                                      |    :width: 200px                                      |
|                                                       |                                                       |
|    Screenshot Metal                                   |    Screenshot Metal                                   |
+-------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
| .. figure:: _static/Example_Metal_haegar80_09.jpg     | .. figure:: _static/Example_Metal_haegar80_10.jpg     |
|    :alt: Screenshot Metal                             |    :alt: Screenshot Metal                             |
|    :width: 200px                                      |    :width: 200px                                      |
|                                                       |                                                       |
|    Screenshot Metal                                   |    Screenshot Metal                                   |
+-------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------+

Commit message:

add the changed design hints to the other examples

doc/manual/en/config/examples/haegar80.rst, after:


CometVisu von haegar80 (Metal)
==============================

This is where the productively used Visu from haegar80 is presented.

| **Design**: Metal
| **Plugins**: colorchooser, diagram
| **Config**: :download:`visu_config_metal_haegar80.xml <_static/visu_config_metal_haegar80.xml>`
|

.. hint ::

    In version 0.12 the metal design has been revised. These screenshots show the old version before those changes.

Screenshots
-----------

+-------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
| .. figure:: _static/Example_Metal_haegar80_01.jpg     | .. figure:: _static/Example_Metal_haegar80_02.jpg     |
|    :alt: Screenshot Metal                             |    :alt: Screenshot Metal                             |
|    :width: 200px                                      |    :width: 200px                                      |
|                                                       |                                                       |
|    Screenshot Metal                                   |    Screenshot Metal                                   |
+-------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
| .. figure:: _static/Example_Metal_haegar80_03.jpg     | .. figure:: _static/Example_Metal_haegar80_04.jpg     |
|    :alt: Screenshot Metal                             |    :alt: Screenshot Metal                             |
|    :width: 200px                                      |    :width: 200px                                      |
|                                                       |                                                       |
|    Screenshot Metal                                   |    Screenshot Metal                                   |
+-------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
| .. figure:: _static/Example_Metal_haegar80_05.jpg     | .. figure:: _static/Example_Metal_haegar80_06.jpg     |
|    :alt: Screenshot Metal                             |    :alt: Screenshot Metal                             |
|    :width: 200px                                      |    :width: 200px                                      |
|                                                       |                                                       |
|    Screenshot Metal                                   |    Screenshot Metal                                   |
+-------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
| .. figure:: _static/Example_Metal_haegar80_07.jpg     | .. figure:: _static/Example_Metal_haegar80_08.jpg     |
|    :alt: Screenshot Metal                             |    :alt: Screenshot Metal                             |
|    :width: 200px                                      |    :width: 200px                                      |
|                                                       |                                                       |
|    Screenshot Metal                                   |    Screenshot Metal                                   |
+-------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
| .. figure:: _static/Example_Metal_haegar80_09.jpg     | .. figure:: _static/Example_Metal_haegar80_10.jpg     |
|    :alt: Screenshot Metal                             |    :alt: Screenshot Metal                             |
|    :width: 200px                                      |    :width: 200px                                      |
|                                                       |                                                       |
|    Screenshot Metal                                   |    Screenshot Metal                                   |
+-------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
