doc/manual/en/config/examples/merlin123.rst, before:


CometVisu von merlin123 (Metal)
===============================

This is where the productively used Visu from merlin123 is presented.

| **Design**: Metal
| **Plugins**: colorchooser, diagram
| **Config**: :download:`visu_config_metal_merlin123.xml <_static/visu_config_metal_merlin123.xml>`
|

Screenshots
-----------

+-------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
| .. figure:: _static/Example_Metal_merlin123_01.jpg    | .. figure:: _static/Example_Metal_merlin123_02.jpg    |
|    :alt: Screenshot Metal                             |    :alt: Screenshot Metal                             |
|    :width: 200px                                      |    :width: 200px                                      |
|                                                       |                                                       |
|    Screenshot Metal                                   |    Screenshot Metal                                   |
+-------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
| .. figure:: _static/Example_Metal_merlin123_03.jpg    | .. figure:: _static/Example_Metal_merlin123_04.jpg    |
|    :alt: Screenshot Metal                             |    :alt: Screenshot Metal                             |
|    :width: 200px                                      |    :width: 200px                                      |
|                                                       |                                                       |
|    Screenshot Metal                                   |    Screenshot Metal                                   |
+-------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------+

Commit message:

add the changed design hints to the other examples

doc/manual/en/config/examples/merlin123.rst, after:


CometVisu von merlin123 (Metal)
===============================

This is where the productively used Visu from merlin123 is presented.

| **Design**: Metal
| **Plugins**: colorchooser, diagram
| **Config**: :download:`visu_config_metal_merlin123.xml <_static/visu_config_metal_merlin123.xml>`
|

.. hint ::

    In version 0.12 the metal design has been revised. These screenshots show the old version before those changes.

Screenshots
-----------

+-------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
| .. figure:: _static/Example_Metal_merlin123_01.jpg    | .. figure:: _static/Example_Metal_merlin123_02.jpg    |
|    :alt: Screenshot Metal                             |    :alt: Screenshot Metal                             |
|    :width: 200px                                      |    :width: 200px                                      |
|                                                       |                                                       |
|    Screenshot Metal                                   |    Screenshot Metal                                   |
+-------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
| .. figure:: _static/Example_Metal_merlin123_03.jpg    | .. figure:: _static/Example_Metal_merlin123_04.jpg    |
|    :alt: Screenshot Metal                             |    :alt: Screenshot Metal                             |
|    :width: 200px                                      |    :width: 200px                                      |
|                                                       |                                                       |
|    Screenshot Metal                                   |    Screenshot Metal                                   |
+-------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
